=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Chess::ELO::FEDA - Download FEDA ELO (L<http://www.feda.org>) into differents backends (SQLite)

=head1 VERSION

version 0.03

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   my $elo = Chess::ELO::FEDA->new(
      -url      => 'http://feda.org/feda2k16/wp-content/uploads/2017_11.zip'
      -folder   => './elo/feda',
      -target   => '2017_11.sqlite',
      -callback => sub { my $player = shift; },
      -verbose  => 1
   );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The main idea of this module consists on build a SQL format from the XLS
downloaded from the URL provided. All players information are loaded into
"elo_feda" table, according this script:

   CREATE TABLE elo_feda(
      feda_id integer primary key, 
      surname varchar(32) not null,
      name    varchar(32), 
      fed     varchar(8), 
      rating  integer, 
      games   integer, 
      birth   integer, 
      title   varchar(16), 
      flag    varchar(8)
   );

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new (%OPTS)

Constructor. It accepts a hash with these options:

=over 4

=item -callback

This callback sub will be called on each record found. It receives a hash
reference with the player data: feda_id, surname, name, fed, rating, games, 
birth, title, flag

=item -folder

Working folder of the overall process. It is not created if it doesn't exists.

=item -target

Target file where the parser stores the ELO information. According the file
extension, it selects the proper backend: .sqlite for SQLite dabase or .csv
for a CSV file format. An empty value means that no backend is built.

=item -url

The URL direction (http://) used by the downloader to search the ZIP file. The
main file expected into the package is the XLS

=item -verbose

0 by default. If set, shows useful debug messages

=back

=head2 cleanup

Unlink the files dowloaded for this downloader (the XLS file)

=head2 download

Download the ZIP file from the -url parameter. Extract the XLS file to the
target_folder (which must exists).

=head2 parse

Parse and transform the XLS input file to the proper backend, according the
-target parameter. It relies on DBD::* in order to build the file.

=head2 run

Integrates download, parse and cleanup in a single call.

=head1 AUTHOR

Miguel Prz <niceperl@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Miguel Prz.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
